# SoilWaterIndex
10-daily Soil Water Index (SWI10), version 3 for the continent of Africa- long term average and standard deviation.
SWI10 is the average of SWI over a 10 days period, calculated for each of the 8 SWI estimates.  The SWI10 product aggregates the SWI data over ten day intervals. The eight values of each variable correspond to a characteristic time length T. The included T values are 1, 5, 10, 15, 20, 40, 60 and 100 days. 
SWI calculated from the Surface Soil Moisture (SSM) from single MetOp/ASCAT sensor (MetOp-A or -B) using a two-layer water balance model.  It is produced on every 10th, 20th and last of each Month. Amount of water (m3/m3) contained in soil layers identified according to their depth measured from the top surface. 

CITATION:
“The product was generated by the land service of Copernicus, the Earth Observation programme of the European Commission. The research leading to the current version of the product has received funding from various European Commission Research and Technical Development programmes. The product is based on Metop/ASCAT surface soil moisture distributed by Eumetsat.” 


http://web.vgt.vito.be/download_g2.php?file=&path=http://geoland2.meteo.pt/g2system/operations/products/SWI/

The Soil Water Index quantifies the moisture condition at various depths in the soil. It is mainly driven by the precipitation via the process of infiltration. Soil moisture is a very heterogeneous variable and varies on small scales with soil properties and drainage patterns. Satellite measurements integrate over relative large-scale areas, with the presence of vegetation adding complexity to the interpretation. 
 
Soil moisture is an important variable in land-atmosphere feedbacks at weather and climate time scales because of its major effect on the partitioning of incoming radiation (available energy) into latent and sensible heat and on the allocation of precipitation into runoff, subsurface flow, and infiltration. Soil moisture is intimately involved in the feedback between climate and vegetation, since local climate and vegetation both influence soil moisture through evapotranspiration, while soil moisture and climate determine the type of vegetation in a region. Changes in soil moisture therefore have a serious impact on agricultural productivity, forestry and ecosystem health. Then, SWI is used in soil-vegetation-atmosphere transfer schemes to improve the accuracy of general circulation models or to improve the understanding of the feedback between climate and vegetation. The soil moisture, up to 5cm soil depth, is recognized as an Essential Climate Variable (ECV) by the Global Climate Observing System (GCOS).

#####RASTER DETAILS
Temporal Coverage: 2007 - near real time
Resolution: 10000m
Units: m3/m3
To retrieve valid index values, apply a scale factor 0.5 to the covariate.


  

#####CONTACT
For more information, visit http://africasoils.net or contact us at afsis.info@africasoils.net.
